prince here.
We're going to discuss about variable or variables,
and we're going to see what is variable,
how to declare a variable and use on displaying a variable value using print.
Three.
Declare a variable on how to deal it available,
and finally,
we're going to see rules to define a variable.
Let me start with the 1st 1 that is what is variable.
So before going toe,
enter with your pipe on variable.
Let me explain your known thing that is in your mathematics.
Suppose if you write X equals two and then some weigh close to three.
Express to what you are doing.
Any number three or 45 What ordered?
Maybe so if executed to what is way value.
Then you are saying what it cost to three into.
266 plus 4 10 Right?
No year X is a variable.
Why is available?
So you are assigning to two X and finally you're getting way value as 10 off simply 10
assigned to wait.
Now you can say finally,
after completion of visit,
the question you consist simply X values to Andre.
Value is 10 right now.
Here were saying that X and Y er,
variables.
Same meaning in your mathematics also right.
But here in your mathematics,
simply you are assigning to two X,
and you are saying execution toe on paper.
But here,
whenever.
If you define execution to in your fight on program or scrape,
what will happen means your pie tenable.
Assigned some memory location for your ex on in that memory location,
the value will be stored and whenever.
If you want to access this value,
always,
you have to use the X.
That's a right.
So when we go,
it's simple,
meaningful.
We were variable.
So available is nothing but a resort memory location to store values our value.
So whenever,
if you want to go do some action right on your variable.
Yes,
you can do it by taking that variable value right?
How to take on how to use.
We will see then how to declare and user variable.
No need to declare a variable before using them.
That means suppose guys I want to store expel us to in my python program,
but I want to store whatever legal some for dirt fight.
Now,
if after year exes in teacher and why is afloat point So before going to assign 23 x our
food our way to why you need to tell your fight and I'm going to take excess and diesel in
techs are way as indigent floor way.
You know,
Nieto,
tell this information to your python python will automatically identify which type of data
you are storing into your ex on.
That's why a fight on his core dynamically type language.
Okay,
No,
let me show you this on your common line or maybe through program through script Horan are
using your fight uncommonly.
Right?
So what do you want to be?
Just weapon.
Some editor case.
You can use either common linear their source.
If you have some,
do a test,
you can also use that,
right?
They write some line as a a close to some 10.
Right?
And if you want to print your a value,
you have to write plenty so that the value off year will be bring.
And already we have seen bite.
If you want to print a string using Prince statement,
you're writing print parentheses inside of corrections,
some string.
But whenever if you are printing of variable value,
don't use conditions.
If use conditions.
It will be print as thirties.
I mean,
let me do one thing.
I'm going to open my common line.
Okay?
No,
I am on bringing to my pipe internal.
So,
guys,
whatever the line,
I'm typing here the same lines you can write in your program as well.
Let's say I'm writing X equal to some four member Now these very first on your program.
Next time I'm writing print Exe Now you can see the result,
but different Bring quotations eggs.
It will print as it is.
I mean X will be print as ladies.
So if we x is a variable you how to print?
We told quotations for your variable If it is not the variable And if you want to feel that
as a string itself right,
you can print in this way also,
if you print in this way,
you will get only X,
not the X value.
First of all,
if you print in this way,
there is no relationship between your ex and this quotation sex because this is a string
and this is our variable,
right?
See if I bring simply Hello,
It is printing your string as it is because you are providing your message off string or
text inside of quotations.
That's why your print will print as Adi's.
Right.
Fine.
Now let me take Why?
Because of some number five or six.
Now I am point to print by value.
Yes,
you are getting and to see that I want to know the type off your ex and white paper fix in
Teacher,
bring same lanes weakened by the all lines in the program and you can exclude race.
Why float,
right?
Let me weapon any there.
So I'm going to use here.
Sublime text.
Of course you can use we am or bite home,
right?
What?
Our idea.
You are prefer like so Now let me use so blame.
Next.
Sorry.
Yeah,
So blamed text.
So I'm going to open sublime texts now using that sublime text.
What are the lines you excluded on your python terminal?
Python shell bite uncommon line.
Same lines.
I am going to execute.
Right?
Let me copy line by line and let me paste it here somewhere.
So I'm going to save these ass.
That means sale first on my program.
Okay,
let me go to the store Because there.
We have some direct record python scripts,
so I'm going to ready here,
working with variable start people.
Any programme,
namely hard to take like so,
actually,
Costa Ford is the first line.
You then on your terminal,
then print.
Exe.
That's it.
No,
Save it on Ronnie to run your program from It was script from Sublime takes a hard to run
control plus B.
You can see the output.
So you know that one day with by using geo agencies,
you can see your program here itself on all sort.
Put right Then let me take one more thing called print.
Exe So there's a heart to know the difference between command line and your bite on program
.
So command land,
water boarding You are excluding line by line by typing your required line program your
wind eggs Good all lines one by one with your fight on.
Let's say why he chose to fight our six.
I'm going to declare way value like don't provide any spaces before starting your line.
If you provide,
it will give an indentation.
No,
let me print your way.
Then let me print.
You're type off X on.
Let me print.
They were type off way as well right now,
I say,
And I'm going to run guys whenever.
If it on your part on program,
it will run from up to down.
It will take first line.
X equals two.
For there is no Prince statement,
you won't get any output.
Simply four value is assigned to the X Now after first line in your remaining program,
X Value is four.
No,
because off second Land it will print exe X value,
not x X elements for darling.
It will print excesses because you're writing exercises String even 14 hello will be
displayed because our 50 lane where he was fighters six.
Now print way,
way Well,
it will be print.
I perfects What type of better you're storing in three X on what type of?
But they are starting in the way that type of data will be displayed because off last to
prince treatments.
And if you observed output final or port,
you're getting indigent and float lost to print statement after their because off this bite
on his core dynamically type language,
right?
So that's if you want to defend any variable yard right?
Simply executes 24 our way cause some number,
right?
Fine.
No.
Next thing is re declare a variable.
See that?
Very first on Mexico,
so full right now.
What I'm doing is in nine plane I'm writing executes some 23 on If I print intently next
value you modified your X value from 4 to 23.
So that would put last to Prince statement 23 or getting so even while re declaring your
variable.
You no need to tell you your fight and I'm going to change my ex value and so on,
so line.
I know.
But if you want to feel to change your variable value,
you're alone at it.
You can change your ex Well,
you right in this way.
Some was very first when I different then then after some lines are modifying x value.
Yes,
you are alone.
Right?
Then the little variable.
See?
First of all,
why we need to deliver variable value on that many of them Just a junior days.
You're having some intelligence off lines off program,
right?
So a gym days out of 500 lines on these are the 500 lines.
Somewhere here you defend some variable where you call X equals something.
Do you know that after 500 lines,
I mean from fine art 1 2000 lines.
So here you are Know where you are using your X variable value,
right?
But what number if you run your python program,
whatever the variables you are defining on whatever the operations you're performing,
all those things will be performed from RAM memory.
Right.
So you feel if you are not going to use here your exploitable value Why should we keep that
in my program?
Why should we keep that in DRAM memory?
Honestly,
I'm going to waste my time Memory right.
You can delete.
You can free up your ram memory by deleting your very well value.
If you are not using that right,
simply little X.
See that after 10 plain Know that I'm using variable collects then in Lebanon and what I
will do simply,
I will deal itics in case after deleting.
If you try toe print your X value.
There is no more X.
You will get an Arab name.
X is not defined because by this land your fight on is removing from his history.
Your ex now there is no X in your python,
right?
That's why are getting another.
So if you are not using that,
only our ability,
Right?
So simply remember,
how did they let a variable value simply deal it x fine.
Now,
the next thing is rules to define a variable names.
So as of no guys,
we have taken variable names as,
like Exxon Dwight.
But in the all time you might take suppose you're going to find job awash in the injury of
excellent way,
I will take a variable called Job.
Abortion equals toe something.
I write some logic to find my job.
Abortion,
Right.
So likewise,
you can take some variable names known intraday like X and white support.
I'm going to install some java,
right,
So install package.
I will take simply Joe up.
So this is my variable name Java watching is my variable name They so?
No.
While selecting your variable names,
you have to follow some rules,
right?
Let me go.
That rules one by one.
It contains the letters numbers and underscore.
So whatever the variable name you're selecting,
it may be simply xtrajet or pick you right.
But also,
you can take some Lenti variable names while taking lengthy variable names.
You are variable name should include only this group off.
Not include it may contain either letters or numbers on Underscore.
Don't take anything other than from these three groups.
Suppose dollar is not there in our three,
either in this or in this or in this.
So don't take dollar in your variable name support.
I want to define X Y X Y equals some number 10.
It's fine,
but x dollar.
Our dollar X don't take in that way.
Dollar X R X dollars.
They are invalid.
Variable names Don't take them right then,
2nd 1 it should not a keyword.
See,
Actually,
if you take simply,
you've right.
It is a valid variable name on the based on You were three groups because it's containing
only letters right?
But the thing is,
if he's already pre defined world for your piped onto do some popular action,
that's why.
Don't take pre defined words as your variable names like Bring You know what is the purpose
?
Offering trendy used to print something and don't take Bring us up with some variable limb
.
Let me day print because some number 40 don't take print as they were.
Very blame because print is already pre defined world for your python,
right?
So they see no need to mug up about your pre defined words are keywords while practicing,
you will come to know right after completion of your complete bite on you will come to know
which are the key words right then can't contain a space You should not include a space in
your variable name.
Let's say ah at me.
Take command line.
Anything is final.
I am taking my name cause suppose not in the so my name.
My variable name contains a space that is invalid,
right?
So don't take any spaces in your variable names then it should not start with the number.
Yeah,
One more thing guys don't take Don't take space in your variable name whenever If you want
to feel to take a space in gym space just to club those two in this way my name Now it is
like tours,
but we're clubbing these two words with underscore right So underscored is allowed in our
variable name right from here underscored is allowed.
So that's why I can take simply my name are my value,
my number Anything you can No problem.
OK,
so the number If you want to take a space inside of your variable just replace that space
with underscore then fine.
Next one needs It should not start with the number.
Suppose guys,
you can idexx one equals to some number on the x two week or two Some one more number,
right?
And if you print it simply x one.
And if you print simply XTO it's working perfectly But if you take one X,
that is invalid Variable name.
So don't start.
You are variable name with the number right on it is a kid since two que since two means
small x equals to four on the Catholics is some different way will let me print both small
X on Catholics because they're different.
Okay,
since two means small X and Catholic,
their different.
You can use small excess.
One variable on the Catholics has one more variable.
Okay.
And the last one is guys saw.
You should not start with the number,
right,
But in your valued for your valid variable names you got is these three groups of letters
numbers and underscore you can also start.
You are very able with underscore.
Let's say underscored executes some number.
It is a valid,
but don't start with the number.
Okay.
So,
guys,
these are the important points to remember while defending a variable names are while
selecting a variable name whenever.
If you're writing your python scripts like,
Look,
you guys,
thank you for watching this video.